Let's move on to our final lesson.
And that is that we want to
position the film flowers that we
created by all the genres that they share.
So, so far we've kinda talked
about how to create DOM
elements with D3,
how to update the DOM and
we dabbled a little bit into
positioning things with D3 scales.
And that's really nice when all
we need to do is translate from
our raw data directly into
like an XY position, but
sometimes we want to visualize something
a little bit more complicated and
that's when D3 has a lot more
modules to help us with that.
So I'm going to highlight
a few of my favorites and
this is definitely not everything.
If you remember that I showed that
whole big chart of different modules,
and you can reference that to see what
else helps with the layout calculation.
A few of my favorites is d3 shape.
And so d3 shape functions what it does
is it helps us calculate the path
strings that we might need to draw line
charts, area charts, pie charts, etc.
Because now that we've learned
how to create shapes with SVG,
and now that we've learned the paths,
strings work, we knew like how
cumbersome it might be to, let's say,
like figure out the path to
like code the path string For
this line of like all these like
jagged little up and downs.
And we could probably imagine
the work that it's going to take
to draw all those like curves and
arcs in a pie chart or
if this is an area chart or
like if any of these lines
are actually a little bit more curvy,
that's going to take a lot of work too.
And so d3 has all of these different
shape functions to help us with that.
So here,
just scrolling through the reference for
all of the kind of different
shapes that you could create,
and the part that I really
wanted to point out is that for
each of these,
often times they will provide an example.
Sorry for all the scrolling but
let me try and get to one.
Actually, let me look at d3 lines and
you will actually have a link to examples.
And so if you're like confused
as to how to use that module,
watch out for this in the reference and
then it will kind of explain in
this observable notebook and
how to use d3 line,
all of the different examples.
And, Yeah, so there's all these kind
of different applications of
different shapes that you can use.
And I also want to make a note that a lot
of the d3 examples like this one has
moved to observable.
And so if you actually go to the d3
account on the observables so
it's like /@d3.
It has apparently 400 something
notebooks of examples.
And the really nice thing is
that they've actually kind of
grouped all of these
examples by the module.
So, the module that we were
just in is this d3 shape.
So you can go in and you can take a look
at all of these different examples and
you can like click in and you can
look at the cell with all the code.
And now that you're more familiar with
observable you can probably dig in and
like look out what's
happening with the data and
then you can hopefully put together so
they are doing the scales.
They're creating the scales
in different cells.
You can hopefully go through
the observable notebook and
figure out how they're using
that particular d3 example.
So again, I am for d3 shapes,
you might have let's say,
an array like this.
This is the raw data array for
Apple's daily closing price and
it just has the date and the venue.
And then in this example, we're passing
that data array into d3 line and
we're getting back this path string and
we're putting that path string.
I am on this kind of path element,
and we're adding some axes and
that's how we get the line chart below.